# FYP-gravity-waves-simulation
# Atmospheric gravity waves (GWs) are small-scale waves that propagate through a stable layer of atmosphere, generated by vertical displacements of air volumes via a trigger and forces of buoyancy. Such triggers may include several causes such as thermal convection, flow over certain topography, flow imbalances, and seismic activity. These processes form disturbances in the planetary atmosphere that will result in GWs. As these disturbances propagate vertically to higher altitudes, the wave amplitudes expand, and the waves are then dissipated through the atmosphere via several processes. This affects the mean circulation of air in the upper atmosphere. These waves are said to play a crucial role in global atmospheric circulation, as well as daily weather and long-term climate changes, while also transferring energy and momentum upwards, acting as a coupling mechanism. As part of the project objectives, simulations will be run for the purpose of researching and studying these concepts.
# With the motivation being to investigate the effects of GWs in the upper atmosphere, an in-house computational model has been developed for the simulation of GW propagation through planetary atmospheres in MATLAB programming language. However, the limitation of this model is that MATLAB, which is a numeric computing environment developed by MathWorks, is widely regarded as rather costly for most users, making this model inaccessible to a large part of our target community. As such, the main goal of this project is to produce a Python code that is able to perform systematic model runs of gravity wave propagation through the atmosphere based on the MATLAB model. In addition, a Graphical User Interface will also be developed for the purpose of easy use.
